---
title: Memorial 8 - Your Inpatient Unit
url: memorial-8
comments: true
layout: default
categories: [articles]
tags: []
date: 29-10-2012
---￼￼￼￼
The inpatient unit where you receive your transplant is Memorial 8, or as it is often called, M8. Each room on this unit is private. Each has a bathroom with a shower and shower chair, a phone and a television with VCR/DVD player. You will be given a calendar to mark your transplant course. Ask for a stationary bicycle for exercise. If you want Shabbat candles, they are distributed on Fridays. The unit has computers that you can use while you are in the hospital. Families may use a communal pantry, a Kosher refrigerator, the family shower room and lounge.
What to bring with you
* Pajamas, sweat pants, shorts, button-down or zipper shirts
* Slippers, sneakers, or socks with traction
* A blanket, sheet, and pillow case if you would like. They should not be white so they do not get mixed up with hospital linens
* Photos, posters, framed pictures, to hang on the magnetic bulletin board
* Cell phone or answering machine (so you can delay answering when you are tired or not feeling well)
* Puffs or soft bathroom tissue (hospital supplies may be rough)
* Books, puzzles, music, DVDs for entertainment
* Notebook for keeping notes or writing down questions to ask
The following M8 staff will care for you while you are in the hospital.
The unit nurse leader is responsible for the unit 24 hours a day. He or she oversees staffing, and makes sure standards of care are maintained.
The nurse practitioner is part of your healthcare team. He or she has a caseload of patients. You will have the same NP during your hospital stay unless your NP is off or on vacation. The NP helps coordinate your care.
The clinical nurse specialist on M8 coordinates care among all members of your team. 
The nursing staff  practice primary nursing. You will have a primary nurse on each 12-hour shift. As much as possible, you will have the same nurse on each shift. Nurses work three 12-hour days each week, so you will have one nurse on some days and another for the rest of the week. 
The nursing assistants work with your primary care nurses. They will help you walk, bathe, and eat. They will weigh you every day between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m. Your doctor will need to know how much you weigh before seeing you in the morning.
The nurse case manager works with your team on your discharge plan. He or she will make sure that plans are in place for you when you go home. You may need referrals to outside agencies that come to your home. You may need equipment. You may also need to go to another care facility for a time after you are discharged. 
The doctors manage your day-to-day care. The doctor on service is in charge and will make decisions on your care with your primary doctor. You will also have fellows and may have doctors from other services as needed. They are called in when or if you develop symptoms that need special care. For example, you may see a heart specialist called a cardiologist. You may see a lung specialist. Memorial has many specialists, any of whom can be called to see you if necessary.
Other staff
M8 has a social worker for all transplant patients while they are in the hospital. He or she may see you regularly or just when asked to by the doctor or nurse. The social worker can help with your emotions and  coping. He or she can provide you with referrals when you go home.
You may wish to see a Memorial chaplain or outside clergy. Spiritual counseling is available for Catholic, Jewish, Protestant, and Muslim chaplains. Clergy from other religions can be called in. Your nurse can call a chaplain for you or you can call yourself. The extension 5982. Your family may attend the interfaith prayers for healing at 12:45 p.m. in the hospital chapel on the main floor. These are held Monday to Friday. Muslim services (Jumah) at on Fridays at 1:15 in the chapel. Religious services on the weekends are:
* Jewish prayers at the bedside on Saturday morning
* Catholic service at 10 a.m. on Sunday in M107
* Protestant service at 11:15 a.m. on Sunday in M107.
M107 is a large room next to the chapel. 
The dietitian will assess your diet needs and recommend foods that you like. He or she will explain the diet you are on and will help you select foods you can enjoy.
A patient representative can be called if you have questions or concerns about your care or your rights as a patient. They will help you fill out a healthcare proxy form and complete advance directives. Section X of this binder has more information about these forms.
The M8 pharmacist dispenses your medicines. He or she has special expertise in medicines that are used frequently for transplant patients. Chemotherapy drugs come from a different team of pharmacists in the chemotherapy pharmacy.
Psychiatrists and psychologists can see you or family members as needed. They can help with depression, anxiety, or other distressing symptoms. A psychiatrist is a medical doctor who provide counseling and can write prescriptions. A psychologist is a non-medical doctor who provides counseling. 
The unit assistant (UA) serves as n administrative secretary. He or she answers the nursing station phone and directs phone calls. The UA also directs staff and visitors to your room and performs other duties to help the unit run efficiently.