---
title: Sperm Collection by Testicular Sperm Extraction (TESE)
url: sperm-collection-by-testicular-sperm-extraction-tese
comments: true
jargonwords:
jargonpercent:
layout: article
categories: ['Patient and Caregiver Supportive Services']
tags: []
summary: Describes why this might be needed, how it works, what happens before the procedure, how the patient is given local anasthetic, the incision, sperm is collected, what happens after the procedure - where sperm is stored. Complications that can occur. How to recover effectively. Who to contact if there are complications. 
notes:
strategy: Try to work bullet points into more fluid text.  (Rethink? No. Some re-writing? Yes. Graphics or diagrams? No. Photography? No. Podcast or audio? No. Video? No)
status: formatted
date: 29-10-2012
---
TESE is a procedure to collect sperm directly from the testes if no sperm are found in the semen. This may be needed because:

* The testes are not able to make enough sperm to find in the semen.
* There is a blockage that prevents sperm from passing out of the penis during ejaculation.

Men may have this procedure done before cancer treatment, to preserve their fertility potential, or after cancer treatment, to attempt fathering a child.

### Before the Procedure
TESE is performed in the Surgical Day Hospital. Please speak with your doctor or nurse about how you should prepare for surgery.

### Description of the Procedure
You will be given general anesthesia so you will be asleep during the procedure.

The doctor makes a very small incision in your scrotum.

The testes are examined using a tiny surgical microscope to locate areas where sperm may be found.

Small pieces of tissue are removed from the testes.

The incision is closed with sutures.

A compression dressing will be placed around your scrotum. A scrotal support will be put on to hold this in place.

You will recover in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit until you wake up. Then you will be discharged home.

The pieces of tissue that were removed are broken into pieces and placed into vials. These will be delivered
to The Sperm Bank of New York where they will analyze the sample. If sperm are found, the tissue will be transferred to their affiliated New Jersey sperm bank for freezing and storage. 

The address of the sperm bank is:
The Sperm and Embryo Bank of New Jersey 187 Mill Lane
Mountainside, NJ 07092
908-654-8836


### After the Procedure
What to expect

Mild pain and tenderness in your scrotum for a few days. You will be given a prescription for pain medicine. Take this as directed.

Mild bruising (black and blue appearance) on your scrotum and penis.

#### How to care for your scrotum
For the first 2 days after surgery:

* Keep the compression dressing in place.
* Keep the scrotal support in place.
* Apply cold packs against the dressing (outside of the dressing but inside the scrotal support). Keep these on continuously for 48 hours except for when you sleep.

On the third day after surgery:

* Remove the scrotal support and dressing. Take a shower.
* Reapply the scrotal support and keep it on continuously for 1 week. You can remove it when you shower.

#### Activity
For the first 2 days after surgery, stay off your feet as much as you can. You can walk short distances within your home. You can climb stairs as needed.

When sitting, elevate your legs.

Do not drive while you are taking pain medicine.

Do not lift any heavy objects (10 pounds or greater) for at least 2 weeks after surgery.
Call your doctor if you have:

* A fever over 101F (38.3C).
* Pain not relived by your pain medicine.